= all-your-base

All your base provides arbitrary base conversion.

== Get it

The latest release is available on gemcutter.
 sudo gem install gemcutter
 sudo gem tumble
 sudo gem install all-your-base

== Require it

To use the generalized API:
 require 'all_your_base'

To use the simple Integer and String extensions:
 require 'all_your_base/are/belong_to_us'

== Use it

Instance Methods
 @ayb = AllYourBase::Are.new(AllYourBase::Are::BASE_78_CHARSET)
 %w(foo bar muffin).map do |word|
   "#{word} in base 10 is: #{@ayb.convert_to_base_10(word)}"
 end
 => foo in base 10 is: 253394
 => bar in base 10 is: 227969
 => muffin in base 10 is: 140676922357

 %w(253394 227969 140676922357).map do |int|
   "#{int} from base 10 is: #{@ayb.convert_from_base_10(int)}"
 end
 => 253394 from base 10 is: foo
 => 227969 from base 10 is: bar
 => 140676922357 from base 10 is: muffin

Class Methods
 AllYourBase::Are.convert_to_base_10("foo", AllYourBase::Are::BASE_78_CHARSET)
 => 253394

 AllYourBase::Are.convert_from_base_10(140676922357, AllYourBase::Are::BASE_78_CHARSET)
 => "muffin"

Fun Stuff!
 "foo".from_base_78.to_base_32
 => "7NEI"

 100011.from_base_3.to_base_11
 => "205"

 "foo".from_base_56.from_base_7.to_base_8.to_base_72
 => "BAR"

 "Zero".from_base_57.from_base_12.to_base_13.to_base_50
 => "WIng"

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests

* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but
  bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2009 Rusty Burchfield. See LICENSE for details.
